---
title: Difficulty owning our own reality
tags:
- Reality
---
# Difficulty owning our own reality
Difficulty owning your own "reality" means you have difficulty experiencing who you are and sharing that with other people. Codependents often report that they don't know who they are. 
**To experience ourselves, we have to be able to be aware of and acknowledge our reality**. Our reality has four components:

1. **Our Body** - how we look and how our bodies are operating.
2. **Our Thoughts** - how we give meaning to incoming data, via the five senses.
3. **Our Feelings** - our emotions, generated by our thoughts
4. **Our Behavior** - what we do or don't do.

When we are experiencing our bodies, our throughts, our emotions, or our behavior, they make up what is real from our perspective, even if they are not what others would exerience in
the same situation. So these things are what make each person uniquely who he or she is, and are the "reality" of the person experiencing them.

Codependents have trouble owning all or some parts of these components in the following ways:

* **The Body** - Difficulty "seeing" our appearance accurately or being aware of how our bodies are operating
* **Thinking** - Difficulty knowing what our thoughts are, and if we know, not being able to share them. Also, give **skewed interpretations to incoming data.**
* **Feelings** - Difficulty knowing what we are feeling, or **feeling overwhelming emotions**
* **Behavior** - Difficulty being aware of what we do or don't do, or, if we are aware, **difficulty owning our behavior** and its impact on others
  
**Not being able to own our reality is experienced at two levels:**

* **Level A** - **I know what my reality is, but I will not tell**. I hide it from other people for fear of being unacceptable.
* **Level B** - **I do not know what my reality is**. Being level B, is living in delusion (since there is no solid experience of what my reality actually is). I must constrct or "make up" 
a personal identity and reality out of what I think I might be thinking or feeling, keep silent and not say anything, or try to mirror your feelings and thoughts about me as I can determine them.

*From **Facing Codependence** by Pia Mellody, Andrea Miller, & J. Keith Miller*
